[music playing]
>>REGINA MEREDITH:
Few subjects are
more confusing to me
than that of finance.
It's a world that uses
a make-believe language
based on make-believe numbers.
Yet, we all have to interface
with the ripples it creates.
Sequestering has kicked in.
The debt is at
unimaginable levels.
Most new jobs being
offered are low-paying
and part-time, yet
the stock market
registers the illusion that
it's at its healthiest,
sitting at a near all-time high.
If something doesn't
make sense here,
it's because it shouldn't.
Andy Hoffman is here once
again to help us straighten out
the facts from fantasy.
Welcome, again.
It gets more
confusing by the day.
And I know I said
that the last time,
but it's not getting any better.
I saw this quote
on your site and I
want to read it because
it's so perfect.
It says, "The first panacea
for a mismanaged nation
is inflation of the currency.
The second is war.
Both bring a
temporary prosperity.
Both bring a permanent ruin.
But both are the refuge
of political and economic
opportunists," Ernest Hemingway.
>>ANDREW HOFFMAN:
Yeah, I like to sample
from outside the mainstream.
You get the best
quotes that way.
>>REGINA: Yes, absolutely.
And that is so true because
we're involved in both.
I mean, there's
nothing but-- it seems
that markets are
nothing but opportunism
that benefit a
handful of characters.
And a few, maybe little geniuses
on the side that understand
algorithms in some kind
of strange and unique way.
But other than that,
it doesn't seem
to be benefiting anybody else.
And what I thought we'd talk
about first is sequestering.
What the heck does
that even mean?
We were talking off-camera,
what is sequestering?
As far as I can see,
it means budget cuts.
>>HOFFMAN: Well, we talked
about this briefly back
in November or December
when I was here.
And it all stems
back from-- which
most people listening
probably don't even
remember the Budget
Control Act of 2011.
Way back when, less
than 18 months ago when
we hit the debt limit,
and we couldn't come up
with any spending cuts there
was something called the Super
Committee that was supposed
to come up with spending cuts.
And they came up
with absolutely zero.
So in order to get the debt
ceiling increased-- at the time
it was, I believe,
$14.2 trillion.
To get it increased
to $16.4 trillion,
they agreed, OK, after the
elections in January 1, 2013,
we will have automatic
spending cuts of $185 billion.
That'll just kick the can
down the road a little.
Everyone will be happy and
we'll get through the election.
So they raised the debt
ceiling from $14.3 to $16.4.
Here we are today at $16.7
and rising because they just
delayed the debt ceiling until
May 19 in what I consider,
basically, child-- school yard
language that they said, yeah,
sure we'll just delay it.
And of course, these budget cuts
were set to hit on January 1.
But then they
kicked the can again
with what was called the fiscal
cliff deal, if you remember,
where Congress actually
worked into the late hours
of New Year's Eve
to delay it again.
This time, to March 1.
>>REGINA: To put it off again.
>>HOFFMAN: Until March 1.
Except this time,
instead of $185 billion,
it's only $85 billion.
So they got rid of half of it.
And here we are, March 1 came
around and sadly, $85 billion
out of a $3.8 trillion
budget is being cut out.
Of course, it's going to take
eight months to cut that out.
And most of it is
government jobs.
But the fact is, they basically
have kicked the can completely.
And now, May 19,
they're going to have
to make another decision
on the debt ceiling,
to either raise it again
well past $16.7 trillion.
But possibly, to get
rid of it entirely.
>>REGINA: So all of the chat on
Capitol Hill about the budget
and about what should be cut
and what shouldn't be cut
and so forth is a charade?
I mean--
>>HOFFMAN: They're
not cutting anything.
What they're doing is cutting
the increase in spending.
That's what they call a cut.
>>REGINA: Oh, I see.
>>HOFFMAN: And actually,
I saw yesterday Paul Ryan,
who might be among the most
despicable of all the people.
And sadly, is
probably going to be
the next Republican candidate
for president in 2016.
He just proposed a budget that
makes the increase in 2013 only
3.5%.
But that's assuming that
we get rid of Obamacare
after we just re-elected Obama.
It's just so ridiculous.
It's just a lot of
petty in-fighting.
The fact is that the spending
is going to keep going up.
The deficit is going
to keep going up.
And of course, you
have interest rates.
Remember, we have them
at record low levels
because the Fed
placed them there five
or seven years ago, which has
created all this inflation
and destroyed all the savers.
But now they're
starting to creep up,
which is why they
announced QE3 and QE4.
But for every 1% increase
in interest rates,
that adds $170 billion
to annual interest costs.
So the fact is they're between
a rock and a hard place.
They have to keep printing
money to keep the interest
rates down.
At the same time, the
inflation keeps rising.
And we're seeing it
in everyday life.
And it will continue
to increase.
>>REGINA: I said in
the open of this,
this is a make-believe world.
When you're talking about
such astronomical numbers
as now being 16, 17, 18-- and
growing-- trillion in debt.
Now, it was only a decade ago
that we were counting only
in the-- under
$500 billion mark.
That was even in 2007
as I recall reading.
We have gone from
a half a billion,
which we considered
atrocious at the time,
to basically turning a
blind eye to $17 trillion.
So in this make-believe
world, at what point
does this not even
matter anymore?
No number of generations
could ever pay off that debt.
>>HOFFMAN: Right.
Well, let's go back to 1971.
Specifically, August
15, which was the day we
went off the gold standard.
It was essentially the day
the entire world went off
the gold standard because the
Bretton Woods Agreement in 1944
essentially pegged all
currencies to the dollar,
and the dollar to
gold at $35 an ounce.
In 1971, when we went
off the gold standard,
basically because we
were overspending,
we had debt, this nation of--
>>REGINA: Yeah, we
wanted to cut bait
from anything that had
accountability to it.
>>HOFFMAN: Yeah,
because we wanted--
you had Lyndon Johnson.
He had his great
society, which is well
for spending in the Vietnam War.
And then Nixon came in
and he inherited all that.
And he had no interest
in stopping it,
so that was the way to go.
And the rest of the
world didn't fight back.
But at that time, the United
States had $300 billion
of debt, which it had
accrued over 200 years.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>HOFFMAN: Now it
has $16.7 trillion.
But of course, that's only
the part they tell you.
Fannie Mae and Freddie
Mac, if you remember,
were nationalized.
They have $5 trillion of
debt, but they consider that
off balance sheet.
So it's really
more like 21-plus.
And then of course, you
have unfunded liabilities,
which have been estimated
as high as $220 trillion
and rising each year.
So there are going
to be painful cuts.
And you say, when
does it not matter?
It matters when
confidence is lost.
Because fiat currency
systems are, by definition,
Ponzi schemes.
A Ponzi scheme simply means
something that must grow larger
to survive and it
depends on confidence.
So people have to believe
that the dollar could spend
and they have to keep
printing more of it.
That's why they do
QE1, 2, 3, 4, and why
they'll need to do more.
So it will matter
until it doesn't.
It won't matter until it does.
Because at some point, like
the other 599 fiat currencies
before it, it will collapse.
That and all of the rest.
Because remember, this is
the first time in history
not a single currency on
Earth is backed by anything.
>>REGINA: So the government
and its relationship
with the media in
keeping the story
propelled forward, I was--
just before we came on,
I was looking at some of the
headlines in the "Financial
Times" this morning.
And everything here conflicts.
If you read the
top headline, it's
going to conflict with
the one underneath it.
How can all of these
things be true?
Dow may be on the
hottest streak in years.
And then the next one
says, "Out of a Job?
Five Good Strategies."
And on and on.
Every single thing contradicts
the one right before it.
>>HOFFMAN: Well, it's
the mainstream media.
I mean, they are
notorious for some
of them being part
of the system.
Let's say, like a
Rupert Murdoch type.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>HOFFMAN: And some of
them simply just kind
of being brainless and
just looking for whatever
gets ratings.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>HOFFMAN: And as I
talk about all the time,
I get it from a mentor of
mine, the term market action
makes commentary.
If you can manipulate the
market, which every day it
does.
You know, I write
about it every day.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>HOFFMAN: You can pretty
much spin whatever news is.
I mean, you'll see one
day Dow up because of x.
And the next day, it will
say Dow down because of x,
simply because that was
the news of the day.
So why not spin it that way?
In a manipulated
market, no one even
knows reality from
the fraud anyway.
>>REGINA: But if
you're looking at it
and taking it all
in in one chunk,
it appears that
everything's fine.
Keep on spending.
There's no danger.
You're not in danger of losing
your way of life, though you
may have lost your home by now
and you may not have a job.
And in a sense, if you're just
looking at it psychologically,
people who said, I don't
want to hear about that.
I just want to keep
a good attitude
and keep my investments going.
Does that actually make
sense on some level,
if it's a con game anyway,
a confidence game anyway?
>>HOFFMAN: Yeah.
Well, as I write constantly,
all they have left-- the United
States, in particular,
has been hollowed out
because its manufacturing
is all gone.
But because of
the money printing
and all the bad policies
that have been made,
all that's left, really, is
what I call market manipulation,
money printing, and propaganda.
So it works to an extent in
that if you print enough money
and you manipulate
markets enough
and you tell enough lies,
that it buys you some time.
And again, most of
the world is not
incentivized to not believe it.
People say, well,
Andy, why don't people
believe you about
gold is suppressed
or the things you say?
I go, because it's not
in their best interest.
When you have
record entitlements.
When you have half of the
country on entitlements.
When you have 15% of the
country on food stamps,
do they want to listen to truth?
They want to listen to
someone that's going to say,
we will give you money.
Don't worry, everything's OK.
Because they have no choice.
They couldn't buy gold
if they wanted to.
Most of them couldn't buy food
to store up if they wanted to.
>>REGINA: But then there's
the whole middle class,
which is rapidly shrinking, who
does have a little money left.
And maybe even in the markets.
They've been watching and
grooming and carefully
trying to protect.
And for them, it would be
detrimental to their own psyche
in a sense to take their eye off
the ball and look at the truth.
You know, pull back
the layers and look
at the truth of what's
going on underneath.
If people were
actually educated,
what do you think would
happen if, right this moment,
the public became aware
of the true nature
of our economic condition?
>>HOFFMAN: Well, it's happened
in many parts of the world.
I mean, remember we have the
world's reserve currency,
so we're the highest
on the totem pole.
And therefore, we can withstand
all this inflation more
than most of the world.
We had the Arab Spring,
which is still going on now.
I mean, you look at Egypt.
They talk about democracy.
It's completely in chaos now.
And inflation has
a record level.
You see the protests going
on throughout Europe.
You know, the civilized
world going on right
now as we speak-- Spain, Italy.
Look at the guy in Italy,
the comedian who just won.
He's brilliant and he's
rallying the people.
>>REGINA: Yes.
I was so hoping
that would happen.
He is rallying the people,
telling them to wake up.
>>HOFFMAN: You're seeing
it around the world.
You've seen it less here.
But generally
speaking, when you talk
about the levels of
poverty, the all-time levels
of homelessness, the JOBS Act.
I mean, we don't even have to
go into the job report itself,
but you are correct.
Even the jobs that they
report that are true
are either in the 16 to 24
age group or the 55 to 69
age group.
And they're all part-time jobs--
>>REGINA: That's like
greeter at Walmart jobs.
>>HOFFMAN: --with minimum wage.
Yeah.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>HOFFMAN: So it's got to
the point where they're now
reporting 200,000 jobs,
except more than half of them
are part-time jobs.
So you can cut that
in half, and then you
have the minimum wage issue.
Which, by the way,
the government
wants to increase,
which would only
make things worse because
between that and Obamacare
and the higher payroll
taxes, small businesses have
no interest in lending anyway.
So they're just-- again,
government gets bigger.
They destroy business.
And you're talking about the
facade of the middle class.
The middle class is disappearing
mostly because of inflation.
When I was growing up,
my father worked one job
and supported a family.
Then, my mother had to work.
And then, we became--
we couldn't keep up
with the rest of
the neighborhood
because it just wasn't enough
in an inflationary environment.
So what's left of
the middle class
is not really
watching the markets.
You have record
low participation
in the equity markets.
As you said in the beginnings,
algorithms have taken over.
That's what's running
the markets these days.
>>REGINA: I mean
interestingly, there
seems to be a quirky
group of young people
that I just noticed recently
that are plugging into somehow,
just kind of figuring out
how this machine model works
in finance.
And knowing as a mathematical
model, they plug in
and then they unplug.
But the point is, that's
a very strange, quirky way
to start-- to do investing.
And it's not for most
people by any means.
>>HOFFMAN: Well, I call
people like that raptors.
It's a term that I got from
another mentor in the business.
Because look, the government
runs the markets now.
You don't need me to say that.
>>REGINA: Explain that to us.
>>HOFFMAN: The Federal Reserve
has quantitative easing.
They buy all of the treasury
bonds that are issued.
In fact, through the first
two months of the year,
they bought more treasury
bonds than were issued.
That's how much they are
controlling the market.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>HOFFMAN: Then you
have the working group
on capital markets whose
job is to support the stock
market, which every day I prove.
I show the evidence of it.
You have the Exchange
Stabilization Fund
whose job is to
manipulate-- sorry, manage--
the currency and
even gold markets.
And then of course,
the secret gold cartel,
which is in there every day.
So they are in there
creating the patterns
of the market with algorithms.
And people like
you're talking about,
they are simply
piggybacking on top of it.
>>REGINA: That's right.
>>HOFFMAN: And I
write every day.
I show people-- look.
I go, look at the
market right here.
This is what it's going to do.
And I'm always right
because it's very simple.
>>REGINA: It's very predictable.
>>HOFFMAN: They do
the same things.
>>REGINA: It's the same
algorithms over and over.
>>HOFFMAN: Yeah, people
that are listeners
should Google "Dow Jones
Propaganda Average."
It's an article that I wrote.
And another one called
"Cartel Herald."
These articles are
about the patterns
that the Dow and the gold price
do nearly every single day.
I wrote it more than a year ago.
And still, today is
a perfect example.
Both are doing exactly what
they are programmed to do.
>>REGINA: Well, let's
look at the market.
And if there is any kind
of purist sense left
in the market, is
there much trading
going on when it comes to
manufacturing and retail goods?
Or is it all just
financial instruments now?
>>HOFFMAN: It's
financial instruments.
We are in the market, as I
said, record low participation
from the public.
We're also at record
low trading volumes.
I mean, decades low.
>>REGINA: And yet, here
we have 1440, 14,500.
>>HOFFMAN: Yeah.
And by the way, the
Dow-- there's something
called survivor bias meaning
they deleted four companies--
AIG, General Motors,
Citigroup, and Eastman Kodak--
because they were either
bankrupt or reorganized.
If you put them in,
the Dow is not up.
And then of course,
adjusting for inflation,
the Dow is down as much as
70% in the past 15 years.
But that's not what you hear.
But you're saying, is
the economy doing well?
I mean--
>>REGINA: I know,
people say, wait.
But the markets are up.
We're recovering.
>>HOFFMAN: Well,
that's the word.
I use that word all the time.
They love that word.
They want everything to be
seen as steadily recovering.
But the facts just
don't prove it out.
They put out these things called
diffusion indexes constantly,
every week, that say,
well, the economic index
went from 53 to 54.
But those numbers
are meaningless.
And they're often
not comparable.
And usually, the things
that make them rise
are things like
inventories going up,
which is not necessarily good.
Or prices paid, which
means inflation--
not necessarily good.
Just like increased part-time
minimum wage jobs going up
is not necessarily good.
But like you said, the
system, the mainstream
will say, yes, that's good.
And then when the government
is in there moving markets
as soon as they come out,
then everyone will say,
well, I guess that means
things are recovering.
When in real life, record
food stamps, record debt,
all these things are what the
average person are seeing.
>>REGINA: What is the
name of that index?
I should have thought
of it before we
started talking today.
I cannot remember the name.
It starts with a B. And
it tracks the movement
of goods being shipped
around the world.
>>HOFFMAN: The Baltic Dry Index.
>>REGINA: Yes, Baltic Dry Index.
Can you talk a little
bit about that?
Because that's kind
of like another fellow
I interviewed who always goes
to the cement conferences,
the banking conferences,
and keeps his finger
on the pulse of the most
basic elements of life.
The Baltic Dry Index.
>>HOFFMAN: Yes.
It's a measure of
trade activity based
on volume and price of tankers.
>>REGINA: Yes.
What's being moved around
the world, real goods.
>>HOFFMAN: Yeah.
And of course, there's
always mitigating factors,
such as if they built too
many at any given time,
or there's maintenance.
But generally speaking--
I haven't looked at it
in the last two or three weeks.
But when I looked at it
two, three weeks ago,
it was at a multi-year low.
Like, it was as low as it
was at the bottom in 2008.
That's where it was
two or three weeks ago.
So again, you look
at electricity demand
around the world.
You look at transportation.
Railroad traffic
in this country.
This country that's recovering.
Plummeting gasoline
consumption in this country.
Plummeting.
But we're recovering
according to the media.
>>REGINA: Well, I have not
looked at the Baltic Dry Index
in probably two or three years.
And it was just
trickling through my mind
that I needed to
check back in on it.
So all-time lows on that.
Let's take just a quick peek.
And by the way, I did
write down the numbers
on the Federal Reserve.
And here it says
zones $1.7 trillion
in US treasury securities.
And it's buying at a pace
of $45 billion a month.
What does that actually mean?
>>HOFFMAN: Well, it's
actually-- the total balance
sheet of the Fed just
hit over $3 trillion
when you include the treasury
bonds and the mortgage
bonds, all those things.
>>REGINA: The Fed has nothing
to do with the government?
These are private
banking institutions.
>>HOFFMAN: It's a private
banking institution.
Although--
>>REGINA: So what
does this mean?
>>HOFFMAN: Well, they are
basically owned by the banks.
And their job is to
protect the banks.
I mean, the banks lobbied
for them, JP Morgan himself
and the rest of
them back in 1913.
And they've created this dual
mandate of steady inflation--
low inflation and
high employment,
but we've had neither.
And their job is to print money.
And when they're
buying $40 billion
a month of treasuries and $45
billion a month of mortgages,
they're literally printing
money and buying toxic assets.
And it's funny because you see
bank stocks are higher now.
They've all soared-- Bank
of America, Citibank, all
these companies.
But the fact is back in 2009,
FASB, the Financial Accounting
Standard Board, was
strong-armed into changing
the rules of how you
account for assets.
And they were basically--
The banks said,
you could basically mark
to market however you want.
You could call all your
bad mortgage assets par
if you want.
Meanwhile, since
2009, everyone knows
the housing market has
dramatically declined.
And they've been
marking up every quarter
those assets to give
themself paper gains.
And they take the free money,
the zero interest rate money
and pay themself bonuses.
That's how it works.
>>REGINA: It's unconscionable.
And recently-- I know this
isn't your area of expertise,
but you may be able to
help me a little bit.
Because I do want to do another
piece specifically on this.
I just went through the
purchase of a house.
And what I had to go
through since the last time
I purchased a house, which
was probably 10 years ago.
So this is post-2008, obviously.
It was shocking.
The process to me was shocking,
enraging, humiliating,
unethical, borderline
illegal, some of the things
that we had to do.
But we're highly motivated
because it was my old house.
I was buying my old house back.
So I was emotionally motivated.
So we put up with it where
all the other people that
tried to buy the same
house and many millions
of other properties
walk away because
of what they're
putting us through.
And at the end of
the day, the house
on a private conventional loan
had to meet HUD standards.
And I hadn't heard
of that before.
And they went through every
single bit of our finances
right down to who wrote
you that check and why.
Is it a loan?
Is it a gift?
And on and on,
right down to making
us have to-- telling us
if you want the house,
you make the repairs on it
before we close the deal.
OK.
And then they said,
and, by the way,
this will be sold off to Freddie
Mac in the next few months.
OK, this is a lot of
information to take
in when you can't see straight
anyway because you're so angry.
What's going on?
>>HOFFMAN: Well, your
experience is exactly what
I've heard from multiple people.
I mean, exact similar
cases from banks,
like Bank of
America, major banks.
And the fact is that
those banks are insolvent.
They don't have a lot of cash.
And that's why the
Fed has said, we
will be keeping interest rates
at 0 until at least mid-2015,
which will actually
mean forever.
Because the only
people that benefit
from that zero interest
rate is the banks.
That's who they are lending
that money to at zero.
They need the money because
they are not liquid.
So they are giving a hard time
to anyone who needs a loan.
That said, the government
has been expanding its role
in the mortgage
market by-- well,
between the robo-signing,
where they've
been allowing the banks
to fraudulently make
all these title changes.
And now what you have
in the government
market where they've been
expanding the federal home
board.
What is it called?
FHLB, or whatever.
The zero-down loan agency.
And now, Fannie
Mae and Freddie Mac
have been buying almost every
mortgage that gets bought.
So you're saying they're
trying to support--
they're starting to subsidize
the low end of the market
by giving out entitlements.
But the high end of the market
where you're trying to be,
the banks literally
have no money to lend.
>>REGINA: So essentially,
these are all
government-backed mortgages?
If it doesn't go out
of the shoot that way,
they will soon
acquire that loan.
So the government
is going to end up
owning all of our home loans?
>>HOFFMAN: Yeah, the mortgage
finance companies were pretty
much destroyed in 2008 and '09.
And there's still a few
around, but it's not
like it used to be where
Joe's Mortgage Company would
buy a loan, sell
it to someone else,
and ultimately to Fannie Mae.
Now, everything is going
through to Fannie Mae
because no one else
wants the mortgages.
>>REGINA: So what is the
implication of the government
owning most of the
people's home loans?
>>HOFFMAN: Well, they own
a lot of bad home loans,
just like the Fed owns a lot
of bad treasuries and mortgage
bonds.
It's called systemic insolvency.
And it's just a matter of when
people will lose confidence
in the paper money
that they're monetizing
to pay for these things.
>>REGINA: But what happens
if there's-- I mean,
I know this borders
into conspiracy theory.
What happens if there's some
sort of legislative change
of heart about private
property ownership
and the government is
owning all these mortgages?
I mean, what could, in
the worst scenario--
I was very upset to
learn that that's
who was going to be
taking over the loan.
Not that I'm a fan of banks.
>>HOFFMAN: But that's
the whole point.
We were just talking
about big government.
The government is
taking over everything.
This is what has
historically happened
in societies in decline.
When there's poverty, people
look to big government.
Actually, I just wrote a
piece the other day called,
"It's not the Economy,
Stupid," and I was talkinga
about-- I was referencing
back in 1992 when Clinton
was running, his
campaign slogan was,
"It's the economy, stupid."
Which meant, the economy's bad.
Vote out those guys,
and vote us in.
But it means something
completely different now
in an age where unemployment is
chronic, and debt is chronic,
and food stamps are chronic.
It means that things
are bad, so you
vote for whoever can give
you the most entitlements.
So basically, Obama has been
able to grow his government
exponentially because people
just want entitlements.
They don't care if
they lose their rights,
if we go to war, if they
give up their houses.
They don't care as long as
nanny government helps them out.
And actually, I wrote another
piece just a week or two ago
called "One-Party Fascism,"
where I said, look,
the Republican platform of being
the party of the rich no longer
works because there's
no more rich people.
And that's why
eventually they're
going to-- that's why they're
kowtowing to all these spending
increases, because they're not
going to get elected otherwise.
Eventually, we're
going to just have
one party and a
fascist government.
That's how it works.
>>REGINA: Well, yeah.
Back to that
homeowner piece is, it
was very disheartening
on an emotional level
to see this is what
everybody's going through.
Down to the extent, I talked
to the manager of a bank
in California,
Merchants National,
which is rated as one of the top
10 safest banks in the world.
I mean, in the country.
>>HOFFMAN: For
whatever that's worth.
>>REGINA: For
It's a three-generation
locally-owned bank.
It's still in the same building.
They never made a scummy loan.
So considering their
behavior was good,
they're considered
among the safest banks.
And I was talking to
the manager and I just
mentioned what we were
going through on this.
And he said, oh, I can tell you
stories all day long he said.
But he himself had just
gone through a refinance.
And they did the
same thing to him.
He's the bank manager--
>>HOFFMAN: At his own bank?
>>REGINA: Yeah.
Very conservative.
Well, whoever that
goes through to,
whoever the underwriter was.
He said, they even made me have
to explain a check from my son
to me.
And he said, it was just
horrible what he went through.
He said, worse is the government
sent in an audit team.
Now, what is the name of
the agency that audits bank?
>>HOFFMAN: The FDIC?
>>REGINA: Is it FDIC?
OK.
So they sent--
whoever the agency is.
They sent in a team of
puppies, 25-year-old interns,
to audit this bank,
which is highly respected
in that community.
And this guy's probably
in his mid-60s.
And they went through the books
and they said, why are you
making loans to these people?
Because they still make home
loans in the area-- regional.
And he said, did you look
at our profit and loss
over the last 20 years?
And yeah, we looked at it.
He said, did you see
any losses in there?
No, we didn't see any losses.
But you shouldn't be
making those loans.
Now, that's a directive
from the government
to a healthy, little bank trying
to be part of a community.
Do not make loans
to your people.
>>HOFFMAN: Well, banks
are not in the business
of making loans anymore.
They're in the
business of accepting
0% cash from the government
and investing it in bonds,
like government bonds, that
the government is monetizing.
And then some of them
are the lucky ones
on Wall Street who are privy
to the inside information
and have all their algorithms,
so they can rig the market.
Look, I was a stock
analyst for 15 years.
That business-- I
left it 10 years ago.
That business is long gone.
There's no more underwritings,
IPOs, all that stuff.
That business is dead.
In fact, Wall Street
with all its profits
has been laying off
people left and right.
And there's going to be
hundreds of thousands of more.
Their business now is to be a
partner with the government.
Take the government's money,
rig markets, do shady deals.
And the mainstream
business of lending
is dead because you have
a very poor population.
You have a very
bad housing market.
And the government is right
to tell them not to do loans.
At the same time, they're giving
out free loans or no money
down loans to the poorest people
so that they can get votes.
They can't have
poverty, remember?
It can't happen.
>>REGINA: Right.
Yeah, it's all extremely
disturbing to think
that everything's going into
the hands of the government.
OK, so let's move on to gas and
oil, because we-- like you say,
the demand is down,
the price is up.
Normally, you would think that
to essentially get people back
to guzzling a little
more heartily,
you would start
lowering the prices.
But that's not happening.
We have been conditioned now to
believe that $3.25 or $3.50 is
a good price for gasoline.
That conditioning has taken
the last, what, 10 years,
to really drill into our--
>>HOFFMAN: And that's in
Colorado, not California.
>>REGINA: California
is at $3.75, $3.80.
And so it's been
drilled in to us
to accept that as a
normal price for gasoline.
>>HOFFMAN: Well, the
prices of gasoline
are not determined by the
government, thankfully.
Although, they certainly try to
manipulate those markets, too.
But the fact is those markets
are too big to manipulate.
There's a scarcity of
oil around the world.
And again, I was an oil field
service analyst for 10 years,
so I know this business well.
All the low-hanging fruit has
been picked over the years,
so it's now very, very
dangerous and difficult--
>>REGINA: The fracking-- yeah.
>>HOFFMAN: --to get
oil out of the ground,
so the prices have surged.
The inflation of costs due
to the printing of money
have also caused inflation.
And then of course, you
have all the tensions
between the Arabs now and
us that we have provoked
by attacking Iraq,
Afghanistan, Pakistan.
Now we're going to go into
Iran at some point-- Syria.
So there's a lot of reasons why
prices are going to stay high.
And in fact, at this
point today in March,
this is the highest
gasoline prices have ever
been in this country
at this time of year.
Remember, we're
going to be heading
into the driving
season in a few months.
They're also at pretty much
record highs in Europe.
And in Japan, of course,
where they've just
devalued the yen by 25% percent,
prices are skyrocketing.
So get used to higher prices.
And potentially,
significantly higher prices.
>>REGINA: Well, I mean, the good
news is it drives innovation.
People are not driving as much.
Necessity is the
mother of invention.
Nothing like an empty
wallet to help you
find another resource
to move around.
And that's not a bad thing.
>>HOFFMAN: But it doesn't
help an economy recover
when no one's driving around.
>>REGINA: It does not.
The unintended benefit.
Hugo Chavez died last week.
And now we're looking
at potential instability
in Venezuela while they
determine what kind of leader
they're going to elect.
And what do you anticipate
that doing in terms of the oil
markets, if anything,
at this time?
I know it's very unpredictable.
Eighth largest oil
producer in the world.
>>HOFFMAN: Right.
Well, look, I remember when
Chavez came into office.
I think it was around '99
because I was doing my oil
analyst stuff at the time.
And he came in.
The first thing he
did was he kicked out
most of the foreign
oil companies,
like Exxon, immediately.
Because he thought PDVSA,
the Venezuelan company,
could do it better.
Since then, production
has fallen off a cliff
and it's never come back.
So they really destroyed their
nation just from that one act
alone.
And I would say-- I was
talking about it the other day.
It's probably a tie between
Chavez and Vladimir Putin
as to who hates America
more than anyone on Earth.
>>REGINA: I know.
That is so true.
>>HOFFMAN: Maybe
Ahmadinejad in Iran.
So in one way you'd
say, OK, it's good
that he's going to pa-- that he
died because potentially, it's
got to get better.
>>REGINA: You're saying
from not a humanistic,
but from a political
point of view.
>>HOFFMAN: Yeah.
Because again, like you
said, they have a lot of oil
and they can cause
a lot of waves.
But as it turns out,
just when he died,
his vice president made some
comments which were shocking.
>>REGINA: What did he say?
>>HOFFMAN: I mean,
he basically accused
the United States
of poisoning Chavez.
He said that our policies
have destroyed the world.
So it looks like the guy
who's going to take over
is going to be
equally anti-American.
And like you said,
anything could happen.
In fact, they just devalued
the Venezuelan bolivar,
I think, three or four
weeks ago by 50% overnight,
which was their second
major devaluation
in the last few years.
>>REGINA: Oh, wow.
They're hurting.
>>HOFFMAN: This is a nation
that's having big problems.
And they're very, very
close with the Russians
and the Chinese.
And they hate us, so it's hard
to tell how that will play out.
>>REGINA: OK.
Well, this kind of segues
into the metals market.
Something's just
kind of scratching
at the back of my memory
about Venezuela and the metals
market.
Yes.
I see you saying yes.
Can you inform us?
>>HOFFMAN: OK, well, it's
certainly a good point.
The point is all the
supposed central bank gold
reserves have always just
been sitting on paper.
The governments tell you,
just like they tell you
what employment numbers are or
what the value of the dollar
is.
They tell you, yeah.
The US says, we have
8,133 tons of gold,
even though there's so much
evidence that they don't.
And now that all
these fiat currencies
are starting to really be
devalued with these currency
wars, a lot of the nations
of the world are starting
to say, why do we have
our gold in other nations?
That just doesn't make sense.
And most of the
gold has been held
at the Federal Reserve in New
York or at the Bank of England
in London, the
two vipers' nests.
The two most untrustworthy
of all the central banks.
So what you've seen
in recent years
is a movement
where central banks
are starting to ask
for their gold back.
>>REGINA: Yes.
I've been following that.
>>HOFFMAN: And Venezuela
was the first one to do it.
>>REGINA: That's right.
>>HOFFMAN: About
two years ago, it
was all at the Bank of England.
And they wanted to
be the first one
to sit down in the
musical chairs.
So they got all their gold back.
But now you're seeing widespread
nations asking for it,
having referendums about it.
The big one was, of course,
the German Bundesbank
just about two months ago
said they want their gold.
And the United States
said, all right.
We'll give you only
a little bit of it.
And it will take
seven years to do.
Even though,
theoretically, it probably
could take about
two or three weeks.
So it's pretty obvious
that the gold is not there.
And if it weren't a majorly
rigged market held down
in the paper market,
it probably would
have exploded on
that news alone.
But the fact is there's a Swiss
referendum that's probably
coming up in May
about the same thing.
They're talking about
it in the Netherlands,
in Austria, a
bunch of countries.
So don't be surprised
if these wars
for the little remaining
actual physical gold
heat up in the next few years.
>>REGINA: Well, you have to
give Hugo Chavez a little credit
there.
Smart enough to understand
this is bad news out there.
Let's get our gold back.
Was he able to
repatriate the gold?
>>HOFFMAN: Yeah, he got it.
>>REGINA: So he might be one of
the few countries who actually
was able to do it because he got
in before the others starting
demanding.
>>HOFFMAN: Well, the Germans
haven't gotten theirs.
They're going to get a tiny
bit of it over seven years.
And if the Swiss
demand theirs back,
that could be a big deal, too.
That could be--
>>REGINA: Well, everyone assumes
it's in Swiss vaults, anyway.
>>HOFFMAN: No, some of it is
overseas, in London, New York.
A lot of this goes back to World
War II because, at that time,
a lot of countries were scared
that they would be taken over,
so they were happy to send their
gold to the then good ally,
United States, and trust them.
But now they don't
trust us anymore.
Especially after what we
just pulled with the Germans
with their gold.
So they want it back.
I mean, there's no worry
anymore that France
is going to be taken
over and someone's
going to take their gold.
So they'll want it back.
>>REGINA: This is indicating a
much, much deeper global kind
of agenda based on fear
that's really going on now.
>>HOFFMAN: Absolutely.
Again, we're sitting here in
Boulder, which is a good place.
But most of the world is not
having such good fortunes.
There is a lot of fear going on.
We talked about Italy right now.
The fact that this
guy was elected.
I mean, he's a major--
well, he wasn't elected.
He got 26% of the vote.
Berlusconi, who was just
sentenced to prison the day
after the election, got 29%.
And then another guy who
also does not want us dirty,
got 29%.
>>REGINA: It's OK.
I've been there during
Italian elections before.
Wow, what a circus.
A lot of emotions run hot.
I'm so glad this guy got in.
>>HOFFMAN: But there is fear.
I mean, the Italian
economy and debt situation
is the worst it's been
since the Mussolini eras.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>HOFFMAN: And the same goes
for the Spanish going back
to the Spanish Revolution
around the 1930s.
It's the same thing.
Greece doesn't
even-- I mean, Greece
is on the verge of annihilation.
They're going to
have a civil war
and they're going to
start killing people soon.
It's that bad over there.
>>REGINA: Let's go to the East.
What about Japan?
You just mentioned a bit ago.
Did you say that the yen
was devalued by 20% or 25%?
>>HOFFMAN: 25% just in 4 months.
>>REGINA: 25%?
Oh my gosh.
>>HOFFMAN: The
thing with Japan is
they've got these horrible
demographics where
they have the oldest
population on Earth
of the civilized country.
Actually, I think
there's only one country
at all that has an
older population.
>>REGINA: They know how to
take care of themselves.
Okinawa always had that moniker.
>>HOFFMAN: Over the
years, they have
been able, with the wealth
in their prime saving years,
to save.
They buy the treasury
bonds of the government.
But now they're getting
old and their population
is starting to shrink.
>>REGINA: Low birth rates.
>>HOFFMAN: Yeah.
So they can't prop up
the government bonds
with their savings.
They need their money now.
So the government has just
initiated their own rounds.
They're up to QE10 right now.
And none of them were working.
So they just elected a guy
named Shinzo Abe, who actually
was prime minister
in 2006 and 2007
under a platform of printing
money, which failed.
But they re-elected him now
because he said this time,
I'm really going
to break the yen.
I am going to devalue
it as hard as I can.
We need to get those
manufacturing jobs back
that have gone to China now,
if you could believe that.
And so he came in and they just
did this incredible inflation
targeting QE round,
which finally
succeeded in breaking the yen.
So the yen is down almost
25% since I think December.
Now, anyone who has the
slightest understanding
of Japan knows that they
constantly talk about deflation
there, like it's a big problem.
Because they had the biggest
stock bubble in history,
or close to it.
It popped in 1989, and the stock
market is still down 75%, 80%.
So they consider that deflation.
And the same goes for
their real estate market,
which collapsed simultaneously.
But the fact is those are
just financial assets.
Real assets in Japan-- I mean
sorry, real items of value
have soared.
Tokyo has been the most
expensive city on Earth
for the last six years.
Yet, they complain that
they have deflation.
And they just devalued
the currency by 25%.
I just read an article
yesterday that said
they are now mandatorily
raising energy prices
by 20% across the board
for these older people.
>>REGINA: It doesn't
like deflation.
>>HOFFMAN: Right.
But again, that's
the propaganda.
>>HOFFMAN: Yes, deflation
of the stock market
and the real estate
market, which
has no impact on the
average person's life.
But the average
person is impacted
by soaring food
prices, energy prices.
And don't forget
Fukushima, now that they
don't have their
nuclear business.
Their nuclear--
their energy costs
are really going
through the roof.
So as far as I'm
concerned, Japan
is now the land of
the setting sun.
It's a very sad commentary
on money printing
and demographics.
And of course, now
the Chinese are
starting to lick their
chops about taking a bigger
piece of what Japan once had.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
And it's been interesting.
I mean, just as you
were talking, in my mind
I was kind of seeing
the flow of goods
over the last several decades.
And after World War
II, made in Germany
was a big stamp on the
bottom of a product.
And you were talking about
really high-quality products.
And then, came made in Japan.
We thought, ugh.
It was made in Japan.
It's not made in the USA.
Well, as time went on, we
started seeing in contrast
to made in China, Japan's goods
were looking pretty darn good.
There was a quality
factor there.
And now it's made in
China that we're getting.
And looking at that, is
there a potential for Japan
to recover themselves going
back into manufacturing?
>>HOFFMAN: No.
Well, no.
They're still there.
It's not like they've
gone-- they're going away.
But the fact is they peaked.
>>REGINA: They peaked.
>>HOFFMAN: And there's no chance
that they'll get any stronger.
Actually, China's not even
the low-cost producer anymore.
There are other
Southeast Asian nations
that are taking jobs from China.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>HOFFMAN: But on
the scale, Japan
is way below-- way
above China, and they're
losing jobs dramatically.
>>REGINA: Vietnam, I
assume, is one of them?
>>HOFFMAN: Yeah, Vietnam.
A couple of the others
of interest-- Singapore,
what they are.
But there's a lot
being produced there.
>>REGINA: Made in Malaysia.
>>HOFFMAN: So the
manufacturing is never
going to come back to
the States or Japan.
One thing about Germany, though,
unlike the United States,
which all the
corporations lobbied back
in the '80s for the GATT
Treaty and the NAFTA Treaty
because they wanted to
have cheap outsourcing.
They didn't do that in Germany.
So Germany still has not lost
the manufacturing that we have.
They do have some
kind of protection
of industry,
rightfully or wrongly.
We've given up everything.
And now, natural course of
things has finished us off.
And the same goes with Japan.
>>REGINA: OK, now we
go-- I want to stay
for a little bit on
the metals markets
just as a reflection,
a lens to look through.
But we go to China and Russia.
And you were saying
earlier that we're not
in very good relationship
in the United States
with either of those
countries, both of whom
have been gathering--
I mean, accumulating
massive amounts of gold.
Physical gold, though.
>>HOFFMAN: Of course.
Yeah, the markets
that trade here,
which have these familiar
patterns, are just paper gold.
I work at Miles Franklin.
We're one of the
biggest bullion dealers.
So I see the physical demand.
And it's enormous.
In fact, the US Mint just
had-- it's shattered.
Not just beat, it shattered
its all-time record
for silver eagle
sales in January.
It also had its
strongest February ever.
And it started out with a big
sales number in early March.
So you're seeing it on the
retail side, lots of sales.
We had our best ever December
and our best ever January.
And as far as the
Chinese and Russians,
they are very vocal
about what they're doing.
The Russians, every month,
publish their increases
in gold.
The Chinese don't publish
their increases in gold,
but they show their
import numbers,
which doubled last year.
And it's just an
astronomic increase
of buying around the world other
than the Western banks, which
have been secretly
distorting it.
>>REGINA: So is the renminbi
going to be backed by gold?
I mean, are the currencies
of these two nations going
to go back to a
gold-backed status?
>>HOFFMAN: Well,
ultimately, that's
how-- again, there were 599
fiat currencies in history.
Every one has failed.
And we're at the stage now where
all the current currencies are
fiat, and they're all in
their kind of terminal stages
with the debt increasing
parabolically and inflation
starting to take off
around the world.
Ultimately, the only
thing that has ever worked
has been a gold standard.
So it will happen.
And the countries that will
lead that gold standard
will be the ones that
have the most gold.
>>REGINA: So we're talking
Russia and China first, right?
>>HOFFMAN: Well, China.
I mean, Russia doesn't even
compare to how much China has.
>>REGINA: Yes, China.
I hear there's warehouses full.
>>HOFFMAN: Russia,
ironically, is
one of the wealthier
nations in the world
because it's all
resource-based, take
care of all this inflation.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
>>HOFFMAN: They've recovered
all that they lost back
in the Cold War days.
>>REGINA: Good for them.
I mean, seriously.
>>HOFFMAN: Yeah.
I mean, Vladimir Putin is
certainly getting his revenge,
even though the
people don't enjoy it
as much as the top people.
>>REGINA: Well,
that is true, too.
So the thought is,
ultimately, those-- I mean,
is there word China
is striving to become
a gold-backed currency
as a nation again?
>>HOFFMAN: Well, they don't
say what they're doing.
But they know gold
more than anyone.
They've been around
thousands of years.
They understand the
culture of gold.
They promote the
public owning it.
They've been buying it hand
over fist in the government.
And they know very well--
look, they have $3 trillion
of reserves, of currencies.
Most of them dollars.
And they know that they need
to get rid of as many of them
as they can before
they become worthless.
Once they realize that they
can't buy anything anymore,
then the system will change.
And could that happen this year?
Sure.
Could it happen in
two or three years?
Yeah.
Is it going to take 10?
No.
It's really hard to tell
how things will play out.
It could be a
singular event that
causes fear, and panic,
and loss of confidence.
Or it could take
several years gradually.
>>REGINA: So let's talk
about the disparity
between this huge demand
for physical metals
and then the suppression on
paper of those same assets.
>>HOFFMAN: Well, look, this
is what I'm an expert in.
There's probably
no more than two
or three people
in the world that
have done as much work on this.
And they're also well-known
people, too, in my field.
And it's pretty obvious
what's going on.
The physical demand
is what keeps them
from pushing the
price down further.
But let's face it, we
talked about the Dow
at all-time highs.
The Dow isn't near
its lows compared
to the price of
gold in real terms.
And gold itself, despite
all of the smashing,
has been up for
12 straight years.
Even with this big smash
last two or three months,
gold's down 3% this year.
It's really no big deal.
And if you look at
other currencies.
Because remember, it's not
just priced in dollars.
Yen-based gold is now
at its all-time high.
So it's not just this
little US-centric world
where we're the only people
with the only currency.
There's currencies everywhere.
The Indian rupee pretty
much collapsed last year.
And the rupee gold was
hitting all-time highs
until very recently.
It just eased off a bit.
So in real terms, gold
is still outperforming
almost all assets.
And people get lost
in it when they
watch the financial
markets, or they
think in terms of what I
call paper PM investments.
>>REGINA: Yeah, it
makes them nervous.
>>HOFFMAN: Yeah.
But what I encourage people to
do, and what I do personally,
is I just own the
real physical stuff.
Because when it goes
up or down, it's
not like I'm going to
do anything with it.
It's my savings.
When you have money in the
bank, it's not like people go,
I'm worried that my
savings will fall in value.
You just think
that's my savings.
I think of my gold and
silver as my savings.
And so I don't get phased
by when it goes up and down.
>>REGINA: So gold is a
little pricey to get into.
It's still around
$1,600 at this moment.
What about silver?
Because, I mean, the
prices on paper of silver
have been repressed.
And as you say, there
are record productions
in the silver eagles
in the United States.
>>HOFFMAN: Right, record sales.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>HOFFMAN: And well, silver
is far more undervalued
than even gold.
And they call it poor man's gold
because it's more affordable.
And the ratio now is about 54
to 1 of gold to silver price.
Whereas, historically it's
been-- it was 15 to 1, or so,
for centuries.
And actually, that
15 to 1 ratio is
based on the amount of
silver that came out
of the ground compared to gold.
16 ounces for every 1.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>HOFFMAN: Today, that
ratio is closer to 9 to 1
because silver is
depleting rapidly.
And unlike gold, which every
ounce that was ever mined
is still around.
Silver has just about
all been consumed
because it's also a
major industrial metal.
So there's literally no
more than a billion ounces
of silver above ground.
And most of it is in vaults,
like in people's houses,
that are not going anywhere.
So silver, to me, is
far more undervalued.
And it's also more practical
for the average person.
>>REGINA: So how can
these all-time high sales
be maintained if we're at
a maximum point of what's
available?
>>HOFFMAN: Well,
that's the tight rope
that the manipulators have been
walking on for some time now.
Because every time the
price gets pushed too low,
demand explodes.
I mean, that's what happened
in January and February.
And if you remember
in 2008, when
we had this big global meltdown
and every asset on Earth
was plunging.
The cartel got gold and
silver to fall temporarily.
Well, the price of silver at
that time went from 21 to 8.
The paper price on your screen.
But in our world,
at Miles Franklin,
the price never fell
below $16 an ounce.
So they were telling
you, if you owned
these ETFs, like SLV, or mining
stocks, you just got destroyed.
But if you owned the real
stuff, the price barely moved.
And every mint in
the world sold out.
In fact, the US Mint had
a shortage for two weeks
this year.
They sold out and for two weeks
they couldn't sell anything.
So we're seeing more and
more of these shortages.
It's just a matter of time
before the games get played
too much, and there's
a surge of demand
and the manipulators get
blown out of the water.
I mean, it will happen.
We've gone from $4 to $50
over the years in silver.
It will break $50 again.
And at some point, it
will break $100 and $200.
It's just a matter of when.
We talked about the other
nations and their metals
holdings as a hedge
against what's going on,
the instability in the
world economically.
As you say, these
fiat currencies.
What is the US' storage position
in terms of gold and silver
right now?
>>HOFFMAN: Well, again, the
US government or the treasury
has claimed it's had 8,133
tons for 30, 40 years.
Which, by the way, is
only worth a couple
of hundred billion dollars.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>HOFFMAN: So for
anyone who says, oh,
we got plenty of gold.
It's just not worth that
much compared to the debt.
With that said, they
don't have that gold.
This is my world.
There's so much
evidence out there
that it's been leased,
swapped, sold secretly.
I mean, all you have to
do is look at the Germans
asking for their gold
and not getting it.
Or why there's been no audit at
Fort Knox, or the Denver Mint,
or West Point for
the past 60 years
to know that the
gold's not there.
And there's plenty of
admissions along the way that
are ignored by the media.
>>REGINA: We only have
about 10 minutes left,
and I want to get
to a few things.
Do you feel complete on the
subject of metals right now?
I could go on asking you more.
Is there anything else we
want to talk about there?
>>HOFFMAN: Sure.
>>REGINA: Go ahead,
whatever you have
to say on that before
I get to the last.
>>HOFFMAN: Sure.
The thing that people
need to understand
is that when you are
buying gold and silver,
you are saving your money.
You are not investing.
And the government
wants you to believe
that it's some speculative,
risky investment.
But in fact, it's
been the only way
to protect your
purchasing power.
Not just for thousands of years,
but for this past 10 or 15
years since the economy peaked
at the turn of the century.
It will be the only way you can
protect your financial assets
in the coming inflation as
it gets worse, no matter
what the propaganda tells you.
And I urge people to avoid
the paper PM investments,
Precious Metal investments,
and only own the real thing.
And to just give
me a call if you
have any questions about it.
>>REGINA: OK.
All right, now what about
the defense industry?
I mean, because that's
a huge part in the US.
Well, most industrialized
nations, that's
a big part of the budget.
What's going on with the
defense industry, and budgets
and spending?
How's that impacting
the big picture?
>>HOFFMAN: Look, it's
all about lobbying.
The big lobbies own the country.
The biggest lobby is the
health care industry.
And we got Obamacare.
The other big one
is the financials.
And the financials, basically,
have all the key posts
in government.
And then, of course, is the
military industrial complex,
which gets all
the wars it wants.
It has both parties asking
for increases in spending.
I couldn't believe it.
I mean, I understand the
Republicans have always
been into that.
But Obama coming out before
the sequester saying,
if we have the sequester, we
won't have military readiness.
And I'm going, we
already spend more
than the next 20
countries combined.
And we're talking about like 1%
or 2% cut in military spending.
And he, Obama,
the head Democrat,
is saying that we can't do that.
So they have a firm grip, these
military industrial companies,
on the purse strings.
And it's only a matter of
time per the quote you started
with before the next war begins.
Will it be in Syria?
Will it be in Iran?
>>REGINA: Well, they have
to defend their existence.
>>HOFFMAN: Who knows?
>>REGINA: You can't get a
budget if you don't have a war.
You have to keep picking wars
to justify your existence.
And as you say, for
those contractors.
>>HOFFMAN: I mean, Netanyahu,
he was quite for a while,
but it was because he was
running for re-election.
And now he's re-elected and
he's screaming louder than ever
at how not just we
need to stop Iran.
But we, the United States,
need to help him stop Iran.
So something unnerving is
going to happen over there,
particularly if oil
prices continue to climb.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
And people have been
having-- The eye
has been on that for
quite a long time.
And it is certainly becoming
more worrying by the minute.
Let me ask you about something
that you have on your site,
and I've seen a
bit of the trailer.
There's a movie coming out.
What is the name of that film?
We were talking off-camera.
You're going to try to sponsor
a showing of it here in Boulder.
But what is the nature of it?
Where is it going to appear?
And take a few minutes
to tell us about it.
>>HOFFMAN: Sure.
I mean, nothing appeals to
me more than youth asserting
themself of good
causes, especially
in this country today
where it's so misspent.
Partially because there's not a
lot of jobs out there, but also
because there's texting
and video games.
And I came across a group
of about three years ago
that decided-- I mean, the guy
who's running it is about 50,
but he has a whole team
of college-aged kids,
and 20s and 30-somethings.
And they've created this
full-length animated feature
called "Silver Circle," which
is kind of an action adventure
movie about rebels against the
Federal Reserve creating silver
to save the economies--
>>REGINA: Yes.
I love it already.
>>HOFFMAN: --and get
sound money back.
Yeah, the trailer is on YouTube.
Anyway, it took them
three years and more
than a million and a
half of their own dollars
to get this movie made,
which is not an easy thing
to do in this inflationary
world with the mainstream hating
your topic.
And they finally got it done.
And it's going to be premiering
in New York on March 22.
Then, there will be a series
of showings around the country.
We're working hard to
get it into Colorado.
And if so, hopefully
there's some listeners here
and in other parts
of the country
that will go and see it.
>>REGINA: It's finished, so I
assume you've seen the film?
>>HOFFMAN: No.
I've seen the trailer.
>>REGINA: Oh, you've
only seen the trailer.
>>HOFFMAN: It's premiering
on the 22nd of March.
>>REGINA: You don't
get an advanced copy?
>>HOFFMAN: No.
>>REGINA: Oh, I'd be
very curious to see
what you think about it in
terms of its commentary.
>>HOFFMAN: Well, I
love the trailer.
Actually, I have the comic book.
I've seen a bit of
what it's about.
>>REGINA: So are we
along for a fun ride?
And do you think
that it's poignant?
>>HOFFMAN: Absolutely.
I think it's as relevant
as anything out there.
And more importantly,
it's done by youth.
It's young people that
believe in a good cause
and have put blood, sweat,
and tears into this film.
>>REGINA: Speaking
of which, we only
have a couple minutes left.
What would you have
to say to the people
under-- essentially,
the under 30s?
People in their 20s graduating
from college, student debt.
>>HOFFMAN: The Millennials.
>>REGINA: The Millennials.
>>HOFFMAN: Or as a guy I
read named Gerald Celente--
>>REGINA: Yes, I like him.
>>HOFFMAN: He calls
them Generation F'd.
>>REGINA: Yeah, F'd.
>>HOFFMAN: I mean, not
to make light of it,
but it's an extremely
difficult situation.
I do podcasts all the time.
I probably do three
or four a week.
And I'm starting to do a
bunch with young people.
>>REGINA: Oh, good.
>>HOFFMAN: One is 16
years old, a bunch of them
are college kids,
very smart that
are really into
the topics today.
And they're worried.
They're fearful.
They live with their
parents, most of them.
They are not sure what
the future is going to be.
The only advice I could
give is the advice
I would have given to myself
back then, is to just work hard
and be focused.
And just, you have
to have optimism
because there's a lot
of good in the world.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
There is.
I mean, the world is
still, on so many levels,
a beautiful place.
We all still have each other.
We all still--
ideally, if we can
take a little responsibility,
have good food available to us
even.
Going back to these
kids, there are
some going into this kind
of micro-growing movement.
Agriculture is
becoming appealing
to some of the younger people.
I was wondering if
you had found any kind
of ingenious
breakthroughs among them
as a result of your
podcast and dealing
with them that are
inspirational for us?
>>HOFFMAN: Well,
I mean, it's not
like I'm following up
with them all the time.
They're slogging away
and I'm encouraged
by their optimism for
what they're doing.
But they're going to
have to dig-in hard
because it's not going
to be easy times.
Like I said, the
middle class has
been destroyed by inflation.
And it certainly is not going to
help the younger generation who
don't have much to start with.
But there are
opportunities out there.
I mean, I had to
remake myself twice.
I started out on Wall Street.
I went into mining.
All these businesses have been
hurt by government policies.
You can reinvent yourself.
There are good things.
There are things that are
expanding in the future.
>>REGINA: And it seems to
me one of the things that's
coming up for them-- as you
say, a lot of them live at home.
And I see it as
another silver lining,
is the notion of
communal living again.
A lot of those kids
seem to be piling in.
I mean, we all did when we're
in our teens and early 20s.
But for longer periods of
time, even with children.
>>HOFFMAN: Well,
out of necessity.
>>REGINA: Out of necessity.
>>HOFFMAN: Out of
necessity, people
will make the best of things.
>>REGINA: So that means they
get to have company and someone
to dine with again.
I think that's a
delightful turn of events.
And Andy, I want to
thank you so much.
You're absolutely brilliant.
I mean, I learned so much in
my conversations with you.
Every single time I think
we've hit something,
you always go into it a
little deeper the next time.
So I just want to thank you.
And I'll look
forward to speaking
with you again in a few months.
>>HOFFMAN: Absolutely.
>>REGINA: Does
that work for you?
Good.
I hope this has been
helpful to all of you who
need an interpreter
when attempting
to read the financial pages.
Andy'll be coming
back regularly to help
keep some reality
to the subject.
Until next time, thank you for
joining us here on Gaiam TV.
[music playing]